In this video, we are going to translate
how to populate the table mentioned
previously used to change from one
word into another with some code.
By the end of the video,
you'll see the finished product.
Earlier, you used an intuitive approach
to fill out the upper left corner of
the minimum edit distance table.
Now, I'll show you how to use a formulaic
approach to fill out the rest.
So you filled out some of the table
already and it looks like this.
Now, to fill out the rest of the table,
you must first fill out the remaining
cells of the left most column and top row.
In fact, you know that to transform
play into an empty string,
you can just delete each letter.
So let's try that.
You can fill out these cells top to
bottom by following this formula.
For each cell, look at the cell above and
at the cost of an extra delete edit,
which will be 1.
This means that to make the string p into
the empty string do one delete operation.
As shown in the previous example,
to turn the string p,
l into the empty string,
delete p and delete l.
Which are two delete operations,
and so on.
Now at D[4,0],
you have the minimum edit distance for
play to the empty string, which of
course is just the cost of 4 deletes, 4.
You can use the same idea in
the first row by transforming
the empty string to stay by
inserting one letter at a time.
You do that by following this
slightly different formula,
working from the left to the right.
Look at the previous cell and
add a further insert cost one.
Looks good so far.
In the previous example, I showed you how
to calculate this cell without formulas.
But you can also find the solution by
applying this big, scary-looking formula.
It builds upon the computations you've
already made in just the same way as
using the no formula method.
Some of this might feel like it's
repeating what you just learned.
But it's valuable to see the formulas too,
especially when getting ready for
the end of week assignment.
So the distance to this orange cell is
going to be the minimum distance to reach
it from any of the previous three cells,
interesting, right?
It might seem a little
bit abstract at first but
you can break it down into smaller parts.
For example, if you come from the cell
above you will add a delete cost,
just like you did in the first column.
If you come from the cell to the left,
you will add an insert cost,
just like you did in the top row.
And if you come from the cell to the upper
left, you'll do one of two things.
Either add a replace costs if
the two letters, source i and
target j, don't match.
Or add nothing if they do.
Because there is no edit to be done for
letters that are already the same.
So here for this cell you have
the minimum of 1 + 1 which is 2.
Another 1 + 1 which is 2.
Since these two letters don't match,
you have 0 plus 2 which is also 2.
Then you take the minimum of all three
of these, which is a 2 in this case.
Place that value in the cell.
This is the minimum edit distance
from p two s by using the formula and
costs defined.
You can then fill out the rest
of the table the same way.
With the m, n entry in the bottom
right corner being the minimum edit
distance from play to stay, which is 4.
I think color coding or a heat map
reveals some interesting patterns.
Can you see what's happened
from the middle square?
That's right.
Once you get from p, l to s, d the suffix
of both words is the same, a, y.
So there are no more edits needed.
And that's why this 4
carries down the diagonal.
Now, you know how to build a minimum
edit distance algorithm efficiently
using a table.
Well done.
There are a few things worth noting about
the style of implementation before you go.
I'll show you those next.
Congratulations.
Now, you have seen some code that you will
be using in the programming assignments.
In the next video,
I will show you some more tricks that will
help you with the programming assignments.
See you soon.